---
layout: post
title: "100 Things"
---

Since everyone likes to think they're so deep with the crap they put on Facebook, I decided to give it a shot. I decided to write 100 things about myself. Surprisingly hard.

I am me.
I am not short, but there are many taller than I am.
I am a skinny white kid.
I am darker than most people think, but not in the way that most people think.
I am myopic.
I am not shortsighted.
I have good night vision.
I am sometimes completely blind.
I don't not shave because I'm going for a “look”.
I don't shave because I'm lazy.
I genuinely do not care about my appearance.
I do care about how I feel about myself.
I do care about how others feel about me.
I can't touch my nose with my tongue.
I wear what I want.
I don't wear what you wear.
I don't wear what you don't wear.
I make my own decisions.
I don't make decisions based on commercials and media.
I don't make decisions based against commercials and media.
I judge music based on it's own merits.
I don't like “that new band”.
I don't like “that new band” because everybody else likes it.
I don't not like “that new band” because everybody else likes it.
I walk my own path in life.
I won't go where everyone else is going.
I won't not go where everyone else is going because everyone else is going there.
I enjoy possessions more than money.
I know what having feels like.
I know what loss feels like.
I have some thoughts which are beyond comprehension outside my head.
I can't express my thoughts in words.
I am simple.
I seek happiness.
I like a good time.
I like good fun and bad fun.
I mean it when I say I'm not thinking about anything.
I have no rhyme nor reason – I do something because I want to.
I like to think up elaborate stories in my head, but I never write them down.
I am selfish, just like everyone else.
I am complex, just like everyone else.
I can't see myself in 20 years.
I can't see myself in 5 years.
I can't see myself tomorrow.
I don't write poetry.
I write thoughts.
I don't quote song lyrics to appear “deep” or “thoughtful”.
I quote song lyrics because I want to.
I don't seek revenge.
I don't get angry.
I don't find pleasure in pain.
I don't find pleasure in the pain of others.
I am happy when others are happy, and satisfied when others are satisfied.
I lie to help others.
I don't hate those who hate me.
I don't hate those who love me.
I don't hate those who don't love me back.
I don't hate.
I love the military and military technology.
I don't love war.
I support our troops, but not those who misled them.
I am rational.
I dislike irrational people.
I think Ann Coulter is the most despicable person on the planet.
I think people who ignore or deny climate change are as intelligent as a potato.
I don't think the free market should be allowed to rule the world.
I think people should stop to think about what they think once in a while.
I appreciate what religion has done for us historically.
I think the time for religion has passed.
I appreciate the finer things.
I appreciate the finer things, but not just because everyone else thinks they do too.
I like music.
I like a wide variety of music.
I like loud music.
I dislike autotuned crap.
I like good cheese.
I think bacon should be a food group.
I like technology that makes our lives better.
I am irritated by people who misuse technology.
I am irritated by people who actively disrupt the evolution of technology.
I am irritated by people who actively disrupt the evolution of our species.
I hope for a better future for everybody.
I hope the past was not the best thing that ever happened to everybody.
I don't live in the past.
I don't live in the future.
I live in the present.
I learned to understand when I was very young.
I will understand to learn until I am old.
I sometimes say things I don't mean to.
I sometimes don't say things I mean to.
I sometimes speak without talking.
I sometimes talk without speaking.
I am not as crazy as you think I am.
I am far weirder than you think I am.
I am different than you in every way.
I am better than you in every way.
I am the same as you in every way.
I am worse than you in every way.
I am me.
Deal with it, motherfucker.

I decided that ending with "Deal with it" sounded incredibly emo/depressed/scene/whateverthefuck/{they're all the same anyway}, so I added profanity to lighten the mood.
